Here I am in an empty unity project set up with many NPCs framework added as well as the samples imported.
Here's the folder structure for the version of the game with Mini.
Now we've seen this folder structure before in earlier samples, so I won't go into great detail.
One thing I do want to mention is that just for demo sake, I've chosen to have the pickup component
be outside of the mini MVC structurally and within the code.
During the sample overview, I'll mention why.
Let's start by opening the main example script.
Here we are in the main sample script as we've done before, This extends mono behavior and here we
have a few serialized fields in earlier samples we've seen at maximum one serialized field used at this
level.
But here we have three.
This is because this version of Mini MVCs has three views.
There's lots of ways you can integrate the views into the framework, but a nice flow I have here is
to serialize them on the example script and then drag in references from the related game objects of
view, player and UI into the inspector window.
Here in the start we create the mini class, pass in those references and initialize.
Let's take a look at the scene hierarchy.
So here in the scene hierarchy, the main example script has three serialized references where I've
just dragged in references to those other three game objects sitting in the scene.
We have the player view with a script, we have the input view with a script and we have the UI view
with a script.
You can imagine with a more complex project you may want to break your UI and other view elements into
several game objects.
Each one can be handled independently or perhaps assigned to different developers with less opportunity
for conflicts and work overlaps here.
The reasoning is logical that the player has a different role within the game than the UI, and the
input too is quite different.
Let's resume looking at the code.
Here we are in the Rollerball mini.
Here I'm implementing I Mini NBCs.
In previous samples we have been sub classing the base mini MVC class.
Subclasses.
Makes sense when you want exactly one model view controller and service.
Having one of each is common for simple projects.
So that's the default that makes sense.
However, here, because we're going to have more granularity as we scale up, we simply implement this
interface and it gives us more flexibility to structure things the way we'd like here in the properties.
We set up the initialized in context as we have before and other samples.
We set up our model, we set up multiple views, we set up multiple controllers and we set up our service
down here in the constructor.
We accept the three parameters corresponding to the UI's.
Remember, those are serialized fields and for ease of use, just dragged into the scene and for ease
of use are passed in through here.
In our initialize we set up the context, the model service and controller as we've seen before.
Notice here in the controller, we're taking more parameters than we've seen before.
Just like this.
Mini has some additional views and controllers.
This constructor itself takes a few additional parameters.
The order we initialize things in here is generally not important, but often since controllers take
parameters in their constructor, we create the controllers last and even initialize them last that
way when they're initialized.
We know that the parts we'd passed into them beforehand are already initialized From all the things
we've initialized.
We've already seen examples in previous samples of the model and of the controllers and of the view.
So I'm going to take a look at the controller here since it does something unique.
Here we are in the controller class and some previous samples.
We've seen our controller extend a base controller.
Again, the base makes the most sense when you have one model, one view, one controller and one service,
which is a good default.
However, any time you want to have more of these concerns, for example, multiple views.
We need a custom controller to manage those.
So here we implement AI controller as we've seen before, and then we do the implementation custom below.
We handle initialized in context as we've seen in the past.
Inside the constructor, we pass all the arguments in and store them, and inside the initialize we
do our typical setup with initialized in context and then move on to some custom details.
We observe events from the model, we observe events from The View, and we set up the service kicking
off the loading Any time the UI restart button is called.
This method gets called as well.
The implementation is exactly like we've seen in the non mini MVC version where we offer the user a
dialog window of are you sure you want to restart and then handle the OC or cancel concepts here when
the service is loaded.
This gets called and we set up the model values any time our input.
Vue dispatches an event.
This method gets called.
Two things of note here.
First of all, we have the model storing a value for our we currently in game over or are we currently
paused.
So several places in the code here you'll see that if either of those is the case, we exit out of a
method early.
So essentially nothing is happening.
If we're paused or we're game over.
And then as we're beginning to see a very common pattern here, here in the controller, we're listening
to The View.
When the View calls the method, this method here gets called and we translate that view event into
a command.
Again, taking the very coupled logic of a view event and broadcasting that like a radio station in
the form of a command.
At this point, any concern that wants to listen in can listen in to this input value, which is a vector
of which direction the user is hitting using the arrow keys any time the view for the player detects
a collision with a pickup.
This method is called We set the pickup invisible since it's been collected and play a sound and then
we count up the score value from 0 to 1, two and three.
And if our score max value is three, then we call it game over.
We're beginning to see some patterns as we continue through these samples, as well as seeing flexibility
in how we can handle different aspects of game development.
So here we are in the controller and we're seeing this event broadcast from the model that, hey, my
score has been updated.
So let's think of a few different ways that you could handle that.
Different concerns might be interested in the score being updated.
For example, the UI may want to update the number of the score value shown on the screen, and in theory,
some other concern may want to handle special effects or audio or something else that should happen
every time score changes.
All of those concerns could get a reference to the model and subscribe to the same event and handle
the consequences we're seeing here.
That would be one solution.
However, in this sample, we're doing a different solution.
The only concern that's listening to that model change is the controller, and the controller is translating
that event into a command.
Since commands are a radio station that are being broadcast to any concern, this is an especially easy
way for any concern to to listen in on this command without needing a reference to the model.
That's the key differentiator there.
No reference to the model is needed to listen to this command.
And when the model changes here for this value, we see the same setup and one the model changes.
For this value, we see the same setup again.
That's it for the controller.
Let's take a look at the view.
Here we are in the UI view, for example.
Now as we've discussed before, there's no concern in many MVCs that must be a mono behavior, but that's
optional.
You can do it any time you want.
And here, because this is a UI element, because Unity UI works well on mono behaviors and because
I like the idea of the view sitting on a game object in the scene, I extend my behavior.
Here I create a custom event so that any time the restart button is clicked, I can broadcast an event
here.
I handle initializing context as we always do.
I have reference to different UI text fields, buttons as well as the dialog window that gets attached
when the user hits restart.
Here in the initialize, we do pretty standard stuff, including subscribing to that restart button
event.
We've seen this pattern before here.
A view is interested in some commands, some of those radio stations that are going to be broadcast
from an unknown sender Since the UI view handles showing the values of the current score, the maximum
score and the status message, it makes sense that we would subscribe to those commands.
Here.
We'll be updating the score text from multiple spots so we have a method here to help here.
When the score change command happens, we update the UI here.
When the score max command happens, we update the UI as well, and when the status command happens,
we update the status.
So when I was talking about the controller, I mentioned there's different ways you could structure
communication.
The solution I've chosen here is for the UI not to have a direct reference to the model and to listen
directly.
Instead, we're getting that information indirectly by using these commands.
In your use of many MVC, you can choose whether you want to have events with coupling or commands with
less coupling, and depending on your needs, there could be pros and cons to each of those solution
paths.
But just for sake of demo, what if we did want this view to access the model directly?
It is indeed a best practice to do that for reading data from the model, but it's not recommended that
the View writes to the model directly.
So let's do an example of how to read just so we see that syntax up here in the UI views Initialize
again, just for sake of example, we could comment out the score, changed command and instead listen
directly to the model.
Let's see how we would do that.
Well, I know which model we'd want to reference and I know how we can access it by using the context
and model local.
As long as the Rollerball model has been registered, we can get it.
Then I listen to the event I care about and think we're doing the score here, and whenever its value
changes, we add a listener.
I'll make a new handler, either manually or automatically.
You can create the proper method for it.
And then I want to mimic exactly what was happening beforehand, setting the local score to the proper
incoming value.
For documentation sake.
I can update the names of these arguments so they make more sense.
And there we have it.
I've demonstrated how instead of using a command, I get a reference to the model, subscribe to the
event and handle the event directly.
Like many things we're seeing here, this pattern of communication from a model change to the view can
be handled multiple ways.
The two that I've shown here are either with a command or without.
Earlier I mentioned that for demos sake, I chose to put the pickup in a separate folder here to remind
us it's being treated a bit differently.
Sometimes in a project you may want to have things that exist inside the Mini structurally and outside
the Mini.
This is an example of something that's outside.
It's not part of a model view controller service, it's not part of the mini itself.
You could have structured things differently.
But here, just for demo sake, again, I'm showing this sitting outside.
Each of the yellow cubes that we see in the scene has this pickup component on it.
Let's take a look at its contents here in the pickup component class, we extend model behavior, which
makes sense.
We want to have a cube sitting in the scene and have it do things like rotate around.
Now, the three primary things that this needs to do in the role of the game is be a rotating cube,
be available to be picked up, and then when it gets picked up, the game needs to handle its consequence
here, restore some local fields so that this pick up knows is the game paused or is the game over?
Yet here in the update, the cube rotates itself unless it's paused or the game is over.
This type of high level game state being used by smaller parts like the player, the enemy, the pickups
in a game, it's very common.
So I was exploring in this demo how to pass that information around.
There's multiple different solutions, but what I'm about to show you is an experimental idea just to
help broaden your mind about what's possible.
This is not necessarily the best practice nor the most simple path.
It's a somewhat crazy idea.
Let's take a look.
Since I'm considering this pickup somewhat outside of the system, it is not a view by choice nor another
concern.
How can we have it access the data from inside the view?
Well, one time as the scene wakes up and this object awakes, we make a bridge to the Mini and here
is the experimental solution.
Now we've seen context and we've seen the context model locator.
The model locator allows you to register a model and retrieve it.
We saw that earlier in this sample.
The context locator is not used anywhere in the framework except right here.
It's a singleton, which any context can add itself into the context locator.
And any scope, including this one here, can get the context out.
So any time, any context gets added and any model gets added to that context, we check, Hey, is
that a model I care about?
And then we subscribe to those changes here.
In the event handler, we just store a local version of those values that we care about.
And now any time the game is over or not, or the game is paused or not, each pickup listens to that
and properly responds.
Now, for this specific use case, I would not handle it this way, but I wanted it in one of the samples
just to show you how to bridge non mini world with the mini world.
And here's an example of how to do that.
Real world use cases of this could be if you decide to have a game that is currently not mini enabled
and you want to bring the mini in to a hybrid solution, you could use the technique you've got here
to have portions of your game that aren't yet in a mini concern.
Reach into the mini world as they need.
So I hope to inspire some ideas, including this experimental portion here.
We've now looked at all the code we want to for this sample.
That's it.